---
template: SinglePost
title: 'My First Time: Relaxed on a Monday!'
status: Published
date: '2018-08-27'
featuredImage: 'https://ucarecdn.com/c19c1d6a-8c0a-4771-a229-4d0962dbfe2b/'
excerpt: 'RELAX,  WORK-LIFE BALANCE, WELLBEING'
meta:
  title: 'RELAX,  WORK-LIFE BALANCE, WELLBEING'
  description: 'RELAX,  WORK-LIFE BALANCE, WELLBEING'
---
Being five o´clock in the morning, my alarm began beeping, making me recall all the things I had to do, and on the top of that, I didn’t even know where to begin!!

I got up, and woke up my daughter, but I let her continue sleeping a little bit more… mmm, why not? … it was cold. On the other hand, it was a great weekend and this Monday was the first day of the week for school!!

I prepared her bath, turned on the water heater, a clean towel then I woke her up! … She asked for a hug before getting up, and I gave it to her; then with the battery of love full, she got up and took her bath. I went back to my bed to read for a while.

In the meantime she was bathing, I thought that I didn’t have any meeting for that Monday. I didn’t want to get out of my bed, but the “Monster of Success” asked me how I can possible continue sleeping if I had lots of things to do! … however, I told myself it was cold and wouldn´t waste time going out, so I took that time to rest a little bit more. I really enjoyed it, immensely! ... After a while, I finally got up, I organized my space, took a shower, brushed my teeth and then I began working.

The first thing I did was to catch up on my financial commitments. I just replied a couple of e-mails and with the others decided I to leave them on hold to be answered later on, since I realised I needed more time to. I also called a client. After all, I felt that I still had a lot of things to do. I started to feel anxious and my breathing accelerated, then I found myself stressed up. I decided to apply some “Stress Management Techniques” into practice, neutralizing my anxiety, concentrating and taking deep breaths to finally find a physical activity to do outdoors.

I put on my tennis shoes, a took a scarf and a jacket and went out for a walk. Immediately, I knew that I was prioritizing my health and wellness, understanding that if I was ok, I would be able to give the best wellness to the others, as well. It was approximately 9:00 am by the moment I was walking towards my favourite park. I looked around and observed everything that was happening. Most of the people appeared to be in a hurry, their faces showed concern, some were walking, others driving their cars, and some commuting by public transport. But me, although I also had my things to concern, in that moment I felt lucky that I gave myself a little space and time for a walk and enjoying what was happening around me.

Feeling great, I entered in a quiet street without any congestion, I looked at the houses, the trees, the Jasmine flowers, smelling their delicious fragrances. Suddenly a beautiful hummingbird flew in front of me wiggling its wings and its beak in a branch which was in front of me, too. I took myself a moment to observe, making me this to feel plenty of happiness, just for having experienced such natural wonder. At that moment my stress levels were going down considerably, so then I kept walking toward the park.

Once in the park, more people caught my attention, because until that moment, in my busy work life, I had never given myself the chance to go to the park on a “Monday Morning”, however I decided to continue enjoying and observing. Later on, I saw beautiful young women doing exercise, a mother giving a ride to her baby, a lady running, a young man playing his guitar, people walking. What I saw at their faces was a pleasant felling for being at the park enjoying every moment.

But the “Monster of the Success” told me that I would probably transmit the others I didn´t have a job; but despite of that, I immediately thought that it wasn´t really important to me what the others think about. The most important thing for me in that moment was how I was feeling and the self-belief that I was so lucky to be able to enjoy that moment.

This was a such great experience for myself that I decided to write it, with no prejudices at all. I walked to my favourite spot in the park, areas with trees, a bank made of a piece of wood in the centre of that beautiful place. I sat down and closed my eyes for a moment to thank the Universe for giving me the fortune of being able to stop work on a “Monday Morning” and to clarify my ideas enjoying a walk and see other people enjoying moments like this, too. Enjoying the flavour of a delicious tangerine, a tangerine that I had in my bag, while seeing the birds fly and I smelling the scent of the trees.

When I walked back I felt calmed, without any stress at all and with all the necessary energy to star my working day. I wondered what Success was for me. I remembered a phrase that an older and retired friend always told me: “I wish you always had a work to do, but not too much so that you couldn´t enjoy life” … Then I though how true his quote was. Success for me is to be able to go out and walk outside on a “Monday Morning”, to dance, to teach, to write, to strengthen my relationship with the music… to stop to meditate, to work on my beach house improvements and to continue building my home step by step; a comfortable place for me, my family and my guest clients. To have a critical attitude based in the experience and according to the principles which involve the What-to-do in the “Psycho-social Risk Management Procedure” of not only Colombia but also the rest of the world. To contribute to the companies and their members my knowledge and practices to make them improve their welfare, quality life and productivity. To learn, learn and never stop to; but above all, being thankful for choosing a path in which I can really enjoy my daughter´s companion, growth and development.

The previous reflection allowed me to feel calmed and enjoy the courage to follow the path in which I´m practicing my Profession meanwhile I live my life. Finding the keys which allow me to manage the psycho-social risk to which I´m exposed; because it´s clear for me that all jobs have risks to face, some higher than others; but always all jobs present them. The key is to recognize them, to know how to manage them, and to find what the causes of our wellbeing are using this to reduce our stress levels.

That Monday, I realized that the world has been involving itself in a “Rush Culture”, concept which has make us wear the “Productivity Chip”, but without a real wellness. These issues in cities as Bogotá, make people to live busily, running and running without having any time to see and enjoy what life is about. Living in a rush just because of the wrong concept of Success. What I think about a busy life is like living in “Automatic Pilot Mode”. This the best way to forget that the time worth it more than money is. As I mentioned above, the time that goes away will never return, but money is always there. You can always find the pleasure in serving the others, as well.

I have really found that the fact of working on my Profession while I also care for the building of my beach house - not only as my place to rest - but also as a resting house or hostel for it to make it sustainable. Being able to share my “Little Paradise” and work in the “Management of Psycho-social Risks” has also given me the opportunity in the path to experience the culture of Bogotá, city that I love since it has taught me to produce wealth, to be nimble and quality oriented but on the other hand, I also appreciate the culture of Puerto Colombia and Barranquilla, both located in the coast of the Caribbean. Having the chance to be next to the sea has invited me to stop a while and contemplate the majesty of the Caribbean Sea, to enjoy the warm weather, the sea breeze which also takes me to a place where the musical notes of the beautiful and no less happy music of the north Colombian Coast. The “Picos” *(colourful big sound systems, full of paintings and typical in the Colombian Caribbean Coast)*from the small beach houses… to feel how the ocean water refresh my feet and my body. I would like to have more beach days and more days like that when I had my first “Monday Morning” relaxing time. I would like to enjoy more the life, filling me up with every single moment while learning to be more productive to achieve a balance, a balance which gives me wellness.

The experience that I’m now sharing with you all has allowed me to verify the benefits of learning to relax, I wish and invite my readers to enjoy not only more relaxing “Monday Mornings”, but also more days for our lives to be more in connection with the surroundings, enjoy wherever we are, teleworking from the beach, the mountain, the airplane and in the country side as if we were in the city. Go out to walk for a moment then identifying that we normally feel anxious and stress most of our lives. This is the real reason why learning how to identify the stress that we´re exposed to, the proper way to lower them and the understanding of the valuable of knowing how to handle and accept frustration are the most important keys to really succeed. Life is made up of the joy and tolerance of the highs and lows, pro´s and con´s. The acceptance, taking into account that it´s also important to plan and prevent risks, is to be aware of what happens in our lives… This will always be the best!! Visit Rina's House web: www.rinashouse.wixsite.com/2016

I**ngrith Vélez Ramos**

Especialista en Psicología Ocupacional y Organizacional

Directora de Bienestar y Productividad